Nvblox
================

Nvblox builds a reconstructed map in the form of a TSDF
(Truncated Signed Distance Function) stored in a 3D voxel grid. This
approach is similar to 3D occupancy grid mapping approaches in which
occupancy probabilities are stored at each voxel. However, TSDF-based
approaches like nvblox store the (signed) distance to the closest
surface at each voxel. The surface of the environment can then be
extracted as the zero-level set of this voxelized function. Typically,
TSDF-based reconstructions provide higher quality surface
reconstructions.

In addition to their use in reconstruction, distance fields are also
useful for path planning because they provide an immediate means of
checking whether potential future robot positions are in collision.

People are common obstacles for mobile robots, and while part of a
costmap, people should not be part of the 3D reconstruction. Planners
that provide behavioral awareness by navigating differently depending on
their proximity to people, benefit from a costmap for people. Person
segmentation is computed using the color image, with the resulting mask
applied to the depth image separating depth into scene depth and person
depth images. The scene depth image is forwarded to TSDF mapping as
explained above, the depth image for people is processed to an occupancy
grid map.

To relax the assumption that occupancy grid maps only capture static
objects, Nvblox applies an occupancy decay step. At a fixed frequency,
all voxel occupancy probabilities are decayed towards 0.5 over time.
This means that the state of the map (occupied or free) becomes less
certain after it has fallen out of the field of view, until it becomes
unknown (0.5 occupancy probability).

Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The launch files for all examples are available in the
``nvblox_examples_bringup`` package: 

.. note::

   NOTE(jaiveers): Bring this examples table into compliance

``isaac_sim_example.launch.py`` \| ``run_nav2``, ``run_rviz`` \| Example
to run with Isaac Sim (`tutorial <./docs/tutorial-isaac-sim.md>`__) \|
\| ``isaac_sim_humans_example.launch.py`` \| ``run_nav2``, ``run_rviz``
\| Example to run with Isaac Sim including human reconstruction
(`tutorial <./docs/tutorial-human-reconstruction-isaac-sim.md>`__) \| \|
``realsense_example.launch.py`` \| ``from_bag``, ``bag_path``,
``run_rviz`` \| Example to run with a realsense camera
(`tutorial <./docs/tutorial-realsense.md>`__) \| \|
``realsense_humans_example.launch.py`` \| ``from_bag``, ``bag_path``,
``run_rviz`` \| Example to run with a realsense camera including human
reconstruction
(`tutorial <./docs/tutorial-human-reconstruction-realsense.md>`__) \| \|
``record_realsense.launch.py`` \| ``launch_realsense``, ``run_rqt`` \|
Record realsense data to replay with the above examples
(`tutorial <./docs/tutorial-realsense-record.md>`__) \|


.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :glob:

   *
